---
layout: post
title:  "2020 Retrospective"
date:   2021-01-01 10:18:00
categories: reflections
---

I am a week into winter break, and spent this past week doing essentially nothing. And I was feeling pretty good about that.

Then, everything changed when I went on a walk with Evan.

Evan is incredibly driven and always looking for ways to improve himself, even on vacation. While I don’t think Evan and I are the same person, I was quite inspired after talking to him for like an hour and a half and I want to steal a bit of his motivation.

And that’s why I’m writing this right now. I want to look back on 2020, what happened, and how I can make 2021 better. I’m not gonna think about growth related to work though because I’m on vacation.

### 2020: Looking back
2020 was my first full year as an adult out of school. It has been a very odd year indeed: it’s very hard to know whether I feel a certain way about things because of covid or because this is just how adulthood is. I also don’t have the social pressure that I usually get from my friends.

#### Goals (sorta)
I didn’t really set goals for 2020; I had Q1 goals, and I told people about them at some point, but I honestly don’t really remember them. They had something to do with music, fitness, and technical growth. Part of what I want to do for 2021 is to verbalize the direction I want to grow in, set more specific goals per quarter, and track / adjust those goals more closely during the year.

#### Things I am grateful for
- Friends who provide the space for me to be vulnerable, and who also share their vulnerable sides with me
- Friends who do dumb yet entertaining things with me
- Friends who motivate me to be the best version of myself

#### Things I am proud of
###### General Growth
**Growth mindset**: I usually reflect on my life (only) when I am sitting on a plane, but covid has given me more opportunities to be introspective and think about how I’m growing. I notice that I’ve been talking more about growth with the people around me, and I have been journaling more about how I am growing as well.  
**Technical growth**: In late Q2 I really started to think more about my growth at work and I started to ask my manager for more things to guide my growth. I now feel much more confident and competent at work, with a greater ability to voice my opinions and to enact change.  
**Giving and receiving constructive feedback**: I was never really introduced to a healthy way of viewing feedback so this was something I wanted to practice this past year. I think I have gotten better at communicating ways to improve myself and people around me.
Reading: I read more seriously in Q2 and Q3 (~10 books) than I have in years (~0 books).
###### Personal Relationships
**Building and maintaining relationships during covid**: This is something that I’m generally decent at but I’m especially proud that I was able to keep this up during covid. I spent a lot of time thinking about friendships, social dynamics, communication, and culture building during covid, had a lot of high medium or low quality interactions, and initiated some social events despite it being much harder to do so than normal.  
**Maintaining a good relationship with my SO during covid**: Despite spending way too much time in proximity with each other, Michael and I have been doing quite well. Things are never perfect, but in this time, we’ve learned to better communicate the things we need, how much space we need from each other, and how to support and love each other during our highs and lows.
###### Personal Wellness
**Running**: I started running sporadically during the start of the year. When quarantine hit, I went all in and was running 3 times a week at my peak. I did learn that I don’t like running so I stopped, but I was proud of the persistence I had while I did.  
**Asking for emotional support when I need it**: This year has been far from smooth and I have had a lot of ups and downs. I have been incredibly lucky to be surrounded by people who care about me, but I am also proud of myself for recognizing when I’m feeling down and reaching out to friends or other sources of support when I need it.
###### Skills and habits
**Guitar**: I played a lot of guitar during quarantine, not super methodically but pretty consistently. I can now play all 24 major / minor chords, and can kind of play along to the melodic line of most songs. I got two tabs books and set a goal of being able to read standard notation on guitar comfortably. I think I’m getting there.  
**Singing**: I stuck with my voice lessons and got noticeably better at singing than before. I definitely could be more effective at them by practicing more and listening to my recordings more, but I am proud of myself for sticking to them.  
**Scrolling social media**: I deleted Facebook and Instagram off my phone so that I stop scrolling. Was a great decision.  
**Flossing**: I started flossing in 2020 and I have done it almost every day so far.

###### Culture
**Music knowledge**: This year I sought to listen to and to understand music that I don’t necessarily like, and I think I now have a slightly better understanding of other genres and general music culture.  
**Movies**: I started a letterboxd and have been watching more movies to better understand pop culture references.

#### Things I want to work on
###### General Growth
**Asking why things are the ways they are**: I noticed this about myself and also got this feedback from my coworkers. I should be asking questions and looking for the root cause of problems instead of just fixing the symptoms because that will help me find the best solution to a given problem.  
**Being more knowledgeably opinionated**: I don’t like being opinionated and don't like giving my take on situations. However, this is just my way of dodging responsibility on things that I should feel ownership over. I often know more than I think and not giving my input can be detrimental to the situation.  
**Exerting positive impact on the world outside of work**: Work is a great way to learn and grow but I don’t want it to be the only way for me to feel impactful. I want to look for other ways to help people and feel useful.  
**Reading**: I should be reading way more.
###### Personal Relationships
**Being more intentional about being a good friend**: I think about how to be a good friend a lot but I'm still missing a bunch of pieces. I want to understand what I'm missing and look into ways of filling those gaps.  
**Family**: I haven’t really been consistently calling my parents this year, and with the election, I have been kind of avoiding them because we have such different world views. I want to be more proactive in building a relationship with each of my parents.  
###### Personal Wellness
**Fitness**: I know covid and climbing gyms closing are not my fault, but near the end of the year I have been fairly sedentary and I would like to change that.
**Building a healthier relationship with food**: I tend to clear what’s on my plate, which is not an accurate measure of how much food my body needs. I also snack constantly when I’m bored or stressed. I want to learn to listen to my body more for cues of when I’m hungry, and read more of other people’s experiences for tips to building that better relationship.  
**Skincare**: Since quarantine, I have had the worst facial skin ever (for me) and I would like to fix this.
###### Skills and habits
**Ear training**: I would like to be able to 1) identify chords by ear and 2) understand why certain chord progressions sound good to me.  
**Thinking less about money**: I spend too much time thinking about money and checking in on my bank accounts, but I really shouldn’t be. I should also be more okay with spending money to save time or to invest in myself.  
**Staying up late only if there’s a good reason to**: I am very okay with staying up late if there is a good reason to, but I often find myself just procrastinating sleep. I want to be consciously staying up late, instead of accidentally going to bed at 3AM because I was too tired to be disciplined to go to bed. I also want to take less melatonin.
###### Culture
**Actively staying in touch with the world**: A lot of the news I have gotten is a result of the people around me talking about these events.
#### Things that brought me joy but didn’t necessarily help me grow as a person
This is a non-exhaustive list, but just want to put this here to remind myself that it’s okay to keep doing these things.
- Sitting with friends and talking or just existing, physically and over calls
- Getting drunk over zoom calls
- Cooking
- Traveling
- Playing games
- Puzzling
- Doing dumb things in general

### 2021: Looking ahead
Definitely not going to get to work on everything, but I’ll prioritize the ones that are pertinent. The plan is to reassess and set new goals every quarter.
#### Q1
###### Fitness
For Q1 my goal is to **go biking twice a week, where at least one ride is 1 hour long.** The idea is to stay physically fit while climbing is unavailable. I have a stretch year-long goal of being active for 150 days (which is approximately 3 days a week). Time to restart using strava!

###### Ear Training
My goal for Q1 is to **analyze two songs every month**, which means identifying the chords and thinking critically about the chord progression. The end goal is to be able to understand why I like the songs that I like.

###### Reading
My goal for Q1 is to **finish 3 books**. Going to get a library card with the SF public library so I can rent ebooks. 
